Red Dragon (Hannibal Lecter #1) (1981)
by Thomas Harris

4/5

Review: “He’s a monster. I think of him as one of those pitiful things that are born in hospitals from time to time.
They feed it, and keep it warm, but they don’t put it on the machines and it dies."

When it comes to Hannibal, my excitement rose when I saw the the 5 oscar winning 'The Silence of the Lambs' with an overwhelming performance of Anthony Hopkins as Dr.Hannibal Lecter.
All the works of Thomas Harris and the movies had made Hannibal a top pop-culture Villain. Thomas has quite a skill to blend horror in a classic mystery thriller.

Coming to characters: Will Graham was a damaged as once gutted by Dr.Lecter but certainly makes up his mind to catch the deranged serial killer 'Tooth Fairy' driven to save lives.
He has quite a vivid imagination to reconstruct the homicides in his mind, with this gift he is also cursed with an intrinsic fear.
By understanding their madness, Will can find the logic in their thinking, and it’s following that internal logic that allows Will to find the evidence they need.
He seeks the help of Hannibal behind the bars in catching the Red Dragon.
Hannibal not much shown in the book, was a powerful character,the manipulator, the most intelligent that no one can pick his brain, so monstrous but still so formal and classy in speech and acts.
The Red Dragon(i.e. Tooth Fairy) is so much creepy and tragic villain of this book who is rejected by her mother as being a deformed bastard and was raised by her granny on the sole purpose of revenge.
Which leds to much rip-offs.

The good part of the book was it's pretty realistic on how the Investigators solves the case which makes it pretty classic but it was a quite long read and I felt it elongated.
Overall, Hannibal is one my most favourite Villain I admire his style, dialogues, acts and class. I have also started watching the TV series by Bryan Fuller which is wonderful due to it's fascinating visuals, it's so artistic that almost feels like a poet!
Looking forward to 2nd and 3rd part.

October 4, 2015

Tags: classics, crime, drama, fiction, have-watched-adaptation, horror, mystery, thriller