And Then There Were None (1939)
by Agatha Christie

4/5

Review: 4.5 stars 
“Crime is terribly revealing. Try and vary your methods as you will, your tastes, your habits, your attitude of mind, and your soul is revealed by your actions.” 

It was a damm cliffhanger that I finished it in 3 seatings...Great suspense quite impossible to figure out till end.
Really Agatha Christe's a mastermind and had written hundreds of mystery novels :O the style was fascinating.
The concept was about the righteous murders beyond the reach of law & justice. The whole story revolves on a Children's Poem 'And Then There Were None' and the murders takes place similarly.
As this mysteries killing starts the characters all are claimed equally as suspects inspite of their criminal guilts, they don't turn into maniacs but starts to investigate among them.
And as, despite the precautions, the number of people trapped on the island continues to decline, the uneasy tension sets in, and the impeccable facades begin to crack.

"The oth­ers went up­stairs, a slow unwilling pro­ces­sion.
If this had been an old house, with creak­ing wood, and dark shad­ows, and heav­ily pan­elled walls, there might have been an eerie feel­ing.
But this house was the essence of moder­ni­ty.
There were no dark corners - ?no possi­ble slid­ing pan­els - it was flood­ed with elec­tric light - everything was new and bright and shining.
There was nothing hid­den in this house, noth­ing con­cealed.
It had no at­mo­sphere about it.
Some­how, that was the most fright­en­ing thing of all. They ex­changed good-?nights on the up­per land­ing.
Each of them went in­to his or her own room, and each of them automatical­ly, al­most with­out con­scious thought, locked the door."

The serial killer is quite conceiled that he has the right and moral authority to determine the guilt and extent of punishment and starts poetic killings.
It was a quite fast read.The whole set up was quite awesome and the ending is a lot baffling & unexpected..

August 9, 2015

Tags: classics, crime, fiction, library, mystery, suspense, thriller
