Unbroken (2010)
by Laura Hillenbrand

5/5

Review:When he thought of his history, what resonated with him now was not all that he had suffered but the divine love that he believed had intervened to save him." 

I love WWII stories but this was the first bio I read of a war-veteran and a POW and it's magnificent.
It is a great story of Survival, Resilience and Redemption in extreme conditions of suffering.
It's written so beautifully portraying a child thief, an Olympic sprinter, a war veteran and a civilian.

So many incredible stories of close calls of near crashes or of running out of fuel over the shark infested Pacific. 
During one battle, their B-24 is hit 594 times AND ALL BUT ONE of the crew survive. 
Eventually, Louie's luck runs out and during a rescue mission in an ill-equipped plane, they crash into the ocean. He survives with a few other men on rafts for 47 days. 
They fight hunger, thirst, aggressive sharks; they dodge bullets from Japanese pilots. 
Rescue comes in the form of the Japanese Navy. So begins a long stay in and out of POW camps. 
He somehow survives unspeakable tortures and after years in captivity, he is free.

While the war may have ended for the word, it continues to rage in Louie's psyche. 
Freed from his cell, his mind becomes his new tormentor, disturbing his thoughts and sleep with hellish flashbacks and dreams. 
He meets a woman, falls in love and gets married, yet the war haunts him and a cloud of misery hangs over his marriage. 
He resolves to return to Japan, find "The Bird," the tyrant who tortured him, and kill him. 
At this stage in the story, he's ugly and unlikable (though the reader understands why). 
Drinking too much, he becomes abusive. His wife talks him into going to see Billy Graham speak. 
He walks out one night. Another night he goes and is converted to a Christian life. 
Normally, the cynic in me would moan and groan, or maybe put the book aside for fear of it getting preachy... but it is what it is. Louie finds peace and forgiveness. 
He no longer is haunted by bad dreams or the desire to find and kill his Japanese tormentor. 
Religion frees him from hate and he becomes a model husband, father, and citizen.

For a history lover, it's a MUST READ! 

February 14, 2016

Tags: biography, classics, favorites, history, library, non-fiction, war